---
layout: post
title: Penguin 4.0 Roll Out
---

_Google has announced that the recent update in the search results is due to the long anticipated Penguin 4.0._ 

### What's the Big Deal About Penguin

Many web masters and SEO experts have dreaded this update for some time. The Penguin update attacks web spam and black hat web linking schemes. Webmasters who paid for links or used link building software were hit hard by past updates, often losing their rankins for several years. 

### The New Parts of Penguin

There are some new aspects of Penguin due to the recent update. First, Penguin is now said to be a "real time" algorithm This means that it will check links (and value or devalue as needed) with every crawl and indexation. Hopefully, this means that web pages which have been devalued can get their rankings back faster. 

A second thing that Penguin 4.0 brings is the granular approach. In the past, a penalty affected the site as a whole. Google's web spam team now says the effect will be limited to specific webpages which are in violation. This is a more fairer approach to the spamming problem. It also helps ward off negative SEO attacks and leaves a victimized business with the chance to salvage other parts of its website. 


One more change is that the G team will not be announcing any further Penguin updates. Rather, the update will be absorbed into the core algorithm of the search engine. This means it will continue to run consistently and may have a few small refreshes here and there. 

### What It All Means

So far, our team hasn't noticed much of a change in the search results. There was some dancing and shifting going on early in the month. Google originally said this was not related to the Penguin update, but rather was a set of testing procedures performed on the results. It looks like now that the activity earlier on was related to Penguin in some way, yet the update wasn't officially released until a day or two ago. 

Usually an update takes a few weeks to fully roll out. We may have to see where this all leads in the next month. We will continue to monitor the situation and inform you of any major changes that come along. 

